Theme 1.0 updates (#2571)
jpmorganchase/salt-ds: .changeset/nice-snakes-camp.md

---
"@salt-ds/core": minor
---

**_Theming and CSS updates_** with visual changes to Salt components:

1. Minor changes in `Button` component width as font weight gets updated. Font weight for two button variants,`CTA` and `Primary` changed from bold to semibold. Expect components containing Salt `Button` to have similar change.

```diff
- --salt-actionable-cta-fontWeight
- --salt-actionable-primary-fontWeight
- --salt-actionable-secondary-fontWeight
+ --salt-text-action-fontWeight
```

> ![Button before and after](packages/core/stories/assets/buttonsOldAndNew.png)

Reviewer: Is this the best place for the pictures? and should they be named using camel case?

Author: I have updated their names to use kebab case and moved them to a dedicated core/images folder, what do you think? @joshwooding

---
"@salt-ds/core": minor
---

**_Theming and CSS updates_** with visual changes to Salt components:

> 1. Minor changes in `Button` component width. `CTA` and `Primary` button text font weight changed from bold to semibold. Expect components containing Salt `Button` to have similar change.

Reviewer: Is the change in width due to the font weight change or something else?

Author: Yes it's due to font weight

Reviewer: I think we should update the wording so it's clearer that's the case.

> 1. Minor changes in `Button` component width. `CTA` and `Primary` button text font weight changed from bold to semibold. Expect components containing Salt `Button` to have similar change.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Minor changes in `Button` component width as font weight gets updated. Font weight for two button variants,`CTA` and `Primary` changed from bold to semibold. Expect components containing Salt `Button` to have similar change.
```

Author: @joshwooding  thoughts?

```diff
- --salt-actionable-cta-fontWeight
- --salt-actionable-primary-fontWeight
- --salt-actionable-secondary-fontWeight
+ --salt-text-action-fontWeight
```

<!-- INSERT IMAGE SHOWCASING DIFFERENCES HERE -->

2. Disabled `InteractableCard` component has default border color updated from blue to grey.

```diff
- --salt-accent-borderColor-disabled
+ --salt-container-primary-borderColor-disabled
```

<!-- INSERT IMAGE SHOWCASING DIFFERENCES HERE -->

3. `Avatar` component line height in HD updated from `11px` to `10px`.

> 4. `Text` component has two new variants: `Action` and `Notation`. See [storybook](https://storybook.saltdesignsystem.com/?path=/story/core-text-text-qa--all-variants-grid) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. `Text` component has two new variants: `Action` and `Notation`. See [Storybook](https://storybook.saltdesignsystem.com/?path=/story/core-text-text-qa--all-variants-grid) for more information.
```

Author: have just removed this bit as separating them into another PR

---
"@salt-ds/core": minor
---

> - Updated Button component CSS token values, minor visual changes expected for CTA and Primary button variants as fontweight changes from bold to semibold

Reviewer: I'm not sure if it's worth focusing on the token impact here (core). I would instead show a diff as a picture (we can get design to provide this cc @pseys )

```diff
- --button-fontWeight: var(--salt-actionable-cta-fontWeight);
- --button-fontWeight: var(--salt-actionable-primary-fontWeight);
- --button-fontWeight: var(--salt-actionable-secondary-fontWeight);
+ --button-fontWeight: var(--salt-text-action-fontWeight);
```

> - Updated Avatar component CSS token

Reviewer: How does this impact a user?

> ---

Reviewer: I think we need to look at how we communicate these changes

---
"@salt-ds/core": minor
---

**_Theming and CSS updates_** with visual changes to Salt components:

1. Minor changes in `Button` component width. `CTA` and `Primary` button text font weight changed from bold to semibold. Expect components containing Salt `Button` to have similar change.

> ```diff

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure we would show this diff as it might encourage changing the local `--button-fontWeight` token. I think explaining the difference of font weight as above would be enough

Author: good point - included the diff as wanted to redirect people to the new token to use since we deprecate 3 of them. Is this better?
```
- --salt-actionable-cta-fontWeight
- --salt-actionable-primary-fontWeight
- --salt-actionable-secondary-fontWeight
+ --salt-text-action-fontWeight
```

- --button-fontWeight: var(--salt-actionable-cta-fontWeight);
- --button-fontWeight: var(--salt-actionable-primary-fontWeight);
- --button-fontWeight: var(--salt-actionable-secondary-fontWeight);
+ --button-fontWeight: var(--salt-text-action-fontWeight);
```

<!-- INSERT IMAGE SHOWCASING DIFFERENCES HERE -->

2. Disabled `InteractableCard` component has border color updated from blue to grey.

```diff
- border-color: var(--saltCard-borderColor-disabled, var(--salt-accent-borderColor-disabled));

> + border-color: var(--saltCard-borderColor-disabled, var(--salt-container-primary-borderColor-disabled));

Reviewer 2: again not sure if this diff makes much of a difference. the change is more the switch from an accent token to container disabled token which needs to be expressed in the above change

```

<!-- INSERT IMAGE SHOWCASING DIFFERENCES HERE -->

3. `Text` component has two new variants: `Action` and `Notation`. See [storybook](https://storybook.saltdesignsystem.com/?path=/story/core-text-text-qa--all-variants-grid) for more information.

```tsx
<Text styleAs="notation">Lorem ipsum</Text>
```

```tsx
<Notation>Lorem ipsum</Notation>
```

**_Theming and CSS updates_** with no visual change to Salt components, useful for teams overriding theme locally:

- `Avatar` component CSS token name updated

```diff
- --salt-icon-size-base
+ --salt-size-icon
```

- `Pill` component CSS token names updated

> In `Pill.css`, these tokens have been renamed:

Reviewer 2: the above tokens imo don't need to be listed, especially since it's in labs. feels unreadable to me and a bit unnecessary. would just say pill styles have changed

Author: oops they're supposed to be in labs cs, movng them over

+ --button-fontWeight: var(--salt-text-action-fontWeight);
```

> <!-- INSERT IMAGE SHOWCASING DIFFERENCES HERE -->

Author: @pseys image for Button's before and after

2. Disabled `InteractableCard` component has border color updated from blue to grey.

```diff
- border-color: var(--saltCard-borderColor-disabled, var(--salt-accent-borderColor-disabled));
+ border-color: var(--saltCard-borderColor-disabled, var(--salt-container-primary-borderColor-disabled));

```

> <!-- INSERT IMAGE SHOWCASING DIFFERENCES HERE -->

Author: @pseys image for Interactable Card's before and after
